# Optimizing-the-PL-registration-of-MMRS-images-using-MSOLG-features
This repository contains the code of "Point Pairs Optimization for Piecewise Linear Transformation of Multimodal Remote Sensing Images by the Similarity of Log-Gabor Features". This letter has been accepted by the IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters.

The authors are: Houcai Guo, Hanzeyu Xu, Yuchun Wei* and YUzhen Shen (*: corresponding author). The authors are with the Jiangsu Center for Collaborative Innovation in Geographical Information Resource Development and Application, the Key Laboratory of Virtual Geographic Environment of Ministry of Education, and the School of Geography, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing 210023, China. 

In this letter, the feature point pairs (FPPs) were optimized to achieve higher registration accuracy of piecewise linear (PL) transformation for multimodal remote sensing images. The FPPs were obtained using RIFT [1], where the code can be found at https://github.com/LJY-RS/RIFT-multimodal-image-matching. Outlier removal was conducted using Fast Sample Consensus [2], and the code is included in the RIFT's repository. Check points generated by HOPC [3] (https://github.com/yeyuanxin110/HOPC) were used to calculate the registration error. Test images are from the repositories of HOPC and CFOG [4] (https://github.com/yeyuanxin110/CFOG)

[1] J. Li, Q. Hu and M. Ai, "RIFT: Multi-modal image matching based on radiation-variation insensitive feature transform," IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, vol. 29, pp. 3296 - 3310, Dec. 2019. 

[2] Y. Wu, W. Ma, M. Gong, L. Su and L. Jiao, "A Novel Point-Matching Algorithm Based on Fast Sample Consensus for Image Registration," in IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters, vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 43-47, Jan. 2015.

[3] Y. Ye, J. Shan, L. Bruzzone and L. Shen, "Robust registration of multimodal remote sensing images based on structural similarity," IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 55, no. 5, pp. 2941-2958, May 2017. 

[4] Y. Ye, L. Bruzzone, J. Shan, F. Bovolo and Q. Zhu, "Fast and robust matching for multimodal remote sensing image registration," IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 57, no. 11, pp. 9059-9070, Nov. 2019. 
